Assignment name: Game of Craps
TCSS 305 C: Programming Practicum


Name: Michael Mapanao
UWNetID: mapanao


Assignment Overview:
(Describe your understanding of the purpose and scope of the assignment in 250 words or less.
The word count is not strict, so don't worry about going slightly over. Do not just copy
text from the assignment description.)

The purpose of our assignment was to cover everything we learned from the course. I think it also
incorporated learning how to read project code and incorporate it into creating something from scratch.
This project also reiterated the usage of GUI listeners and how to implement them. As professor Capaul
had mentioned in class, start with the logic, then GUI, then the listeners. So understanding the
model, view, controller concept is pretty important when it comes to planning the project. The extra
credit also was helpful for learning how to use Java API to implement unlearned skills by easily following
the guides that Java gives. While the scope was quite big, it gave a purpose to start early (like most projects)
but to attack little parts of the project at a time and to have a plan for each part (model, view, controller).

Technical Impression:
(Describe what you have done to complete the assignment in 200-500 words.
The word count is not strict, so don't worry about going slightly over; however,
summaries that do not meet the minimum length requirement or are trivial in nature
(representing little thought or effort) will not get full credit. You can share your
personal experiences, things that particularly frustrated you about the assignment,
things that particularly interested you about the assignment, etc. It is especially
important that you document any difficulties you had with tools, Java libraries, etc.)

I'll start with the things I had to take more time on. The first thing that I wanted to really
nail down for this project was to understand how to use the propertychangelistener because I found
that it would be crucial to have certain things trigger when needed. I have a good grasp on it and that
it should be used in the model because the model shouldn't really on the view. So if you have the logic
down for your model, and you want to tell a JButton to be disabled when you roll a 7 then in that case
it can interact with the view by attaching a propertychangelistener to that view class.

Another issue I ran into was trying to figure out the jtextfield for bet and bank. This is also kind of why
both the bet textfield and bank textfield both start at 1. When they started at 0, that was interfering as
an edge case. So overall, I found it easier to implement that the user/ player always starts with the proper
minimum amount. If you do change the bet or bank to 0, it will either a) give you the JOptionPane warning, or
it will automatically update back to 1 if you click away (lose focus).

I was very interested in this project because it was a whole do-it-yourself from the ground up, and it gave
some freedom for the creativity aspect such as the layout and UI.

Having the color controller project prior to this was crucial into understanding how to add listeners. I also
think I did a good job of making each listener its own method to keep things modular. I had a small issue
understanding why my shortcuts weren't working for the toolbar when implemented them but I guess you must use alt
+ the key in order for it to work, while I did see there was some workarounds I figured it would be okay to not
implement it.

Unresolved problems in my submission:

(Use this space to list problems which you know exist in your submission. This could
include program features which you did not have time to implement, bugs in your code,
warnings generated by the tools which you did not understand or did not have time to correct,
or other issues. I give a reduced grade penalty for problems which I find in your submission
that are listed here and a larger penalty for those which are not. Just say 'none' if
there are no issues that you are aware of.)

The only unresolved-ish problem was that when you roll, myPoint doesn't update until the 2nd roll.


Citations and Collaborations:
(Use this space to cite sources of code used in completing this assignment. If you use code
from Stack Overflow , GitHub, or another source, link to the page here. If you worked with
a fellow student or lab mentor, please state the student’s name and discuss the nature of
your collaboration.)

Sources:

https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/uiswing/layout/group.html

https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/uiswing/layout/using.html#set

https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/uiswing/components/menu.html

https://docs.oracle.com/javase%2Ftutorial%2Fuiswing%2F%2F/components/tooltip.html

https://stackoverflow.com/questions/2380314/how-do-i-set-a-jlabels-background-color

I did not collaborate with any other students.


Extra credit:
List any extra credit items completed. Be as specific as possible.
- Implemented sounds for when a player rolls, wins, or loses.
- Implemented changing the color of total to green if the player wins.
- Implemented changing the color total to red if the player loses.
- Implemented images of dice for when the player rolls.

Questions:
(Use this space to ask questions that you still have about the assignment, or just say 'none'
if you have no questions at this time.)
What is the smallest cyclomatic complexity one could do for truck class? with and without lambda expressions.

